DOCS-676: Update fleet page with collaboration info (#1119)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/manage/fleet/_index.md

linkTitle: "Fleet Management"
weight: 30
type: "docs"
description: "Configure, control, debug, and manage your robots from the cloud at app.viam.com on your own or with a team."
tags: ["fleet management", "cloud", "app"]
no_list: true
aliases:
    - "/manage/fleet-management"
    - "/manage/app-usage"
    - "/product-overviews/fleet-management/"
---

> The [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) provides fleet management allowing you to work alone or in collaboration with others on one or more robots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) provides fleet management allowing you to work on any number of robots alone or in collaboration with others.
```
[opt]

## Work with groups of robots

With Viam, you can organize {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="robot" text="robots" >}} into {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="location" text="locations" >}} and {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="organization" text="organizations" >}}.

For example, you may have separate organizations for your robots at home and at work:

{{<gif webm_src="../img/organizations.webm" mp4_src="../img/organizations.mp4" alt="An organization for personal robots and one for work robots.">}}

Inside an organization, you can organize robots into one or more locations:

![An image of two locations, New York, and Chicago, in one organization, Good Robots](../img/locations.png)

> If you are managing a large fleet, you can use {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="fragment" text="fragments" >}} when [configuring your robots](../../configuration), allowing you to use the same configuration for multiple robots.

Author: ```suggestion
If you are managing a large fleet, you can use {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="fragment" text="fragments" >}} when [configuring your robots](../configuration), allowing you to use the same configuration for multiple robots.
```

## Use Viam for collaboration

> To facilitate collaboration, you can add collaborators to organizations, and share locations across multiple organizations. Soon you will also be able to assign [permissions](#permissions) to collaborators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To facilitate collaboration, you can add collaborators to organizations, and share locations across multiple organizations.
Soon you will also be able to assign [permissions](#permissions) to collaborators.
```
Do we want to talk about currently unsupported things? Or just add them once we support them?

Author: Since this will happen in the next week or two I don't mind it

When you create a Viam account, Viam automatically creates an organization for you.
You can use this organization or add another organization as your collaboration hub by inviting collaborators to your organization.

{{< alert title="Caution" color="caution" >}}
Currently, everyone you invite to your organization, has complete access to everything in that organization.
This includes the permissions to delete robots and locations, as well as the ability to remove you from the organization.

[Permissions](#permissions) are coming soon.
{{< /alert >}}

> You can also share locations across different organizations **that you are also part of**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also share locations across different organizations **that you are part of**.
```
"also" used twice

linkTitle: "Fleet Management"
weight: 30
type: "docs"
description: "Configure, control, debug, and manage your robots from the cloud at app.viam.com on your own or with a team."
tags: ["fleet management", "cloud", "app"]
no_list: true
aliases:
    - "/manage/fleet-management"
    - "/manage/app-usage"
    - "/product-overviews/fleet-management/"
---

The [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) provides fleet management allowing you to work alone or in collaboration with others on one or more robots.

## Work with groups of robots

With Viam, you can organize {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="robot" text="robots" >}} into {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="location" text="locations" >}} and {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="organization" text="organizations" >}}.

For example, you may have separate organizations for your robots at home and at work:

{{<gif webm_src="../img/organizations.webm" mp4_src="../img/organizations.mp4" alt="An organization for personal robots and one for work robots.">}}

Inside an organization, you can organize robots into one or more locations:

> ![An image of two locations, New York, and Chicago, in one organization, Good Robots](../img/locations.png)

Reviewer: The gif is much much much smaller than the image on large screens, which looks odd. Maybe the image should be smaller, or the gif should be bigger, or if the gif can't be bigger because it's low resolution, maybe just replace it with a higher resolution image? As cute as the animation is it doesn't add all that much compared to an equivalent image :)

> If you are managing a large fleet, you can use {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="fragment" text="fragments" >}} when [configuring your robots](../configuration), allowing you to use the same configuration for multiple robots.

Author: yep good catch
```suggestion
If you are managing a fleet, you can use {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="fragment" text="fragments" >}} when [configuring your robots](../configuration), allowing you to use the same configuration for multiple robots.
```

## Use Viam for collaboration

To facilitate collaboration, you can add collaborators to organizations, and share locations across multiple organizations.

> Soon you will also be able to assign [permissions](#permissions) to collaborators.

Author: ```suggestion
Viam is actively working on functionality to allow you to assign [permissions](#permissions) to collaborators.
```

When you create a Viam account, Viam automatically creates an organization for you.

> You can use this organization or add another organization as your collaboration hub by inviting collaborators to your organization.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use this organization as your collaboration hub by inviting collaborators to your organization.
You can also add additional organizations as desired at any time.
```

A user can have one or more roles, granting the user the respective permissions of each role.

## Collaborate on your robots

Viam is built in a way that allows you to change configurations, deploy packages, check logs, and control your robots both when you are close to your robot, as well as remotely.

> Robot [configuration](robots/#configuration) and Robot [code](#control-with-code) is intentially kept separate, allowing you to keep track of versioning and debug issues separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Robot [configuration](robots/#configuration) and robot [code](#control-with-code) is intentionally kept separate, allowing you to keep track of versioning and debug issues separately.
```

### Configuration

Everyone who has access to the location the robot is in, can change the robot's configuration.
When you or your collaborators change a robot's configuration, the robot will automatically reconfigure itself within 15 seconds.

> You can see configuration changes from yourself or your collaborators on the [History tab](robots/#history).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see configuration changes made by yourself or by your collaborators on the [History tab](robots/#history).
```

You can also revert to an earlier configuration from the History tab.

{{< alert title="Note" color="note" >}}

> Configuration may require physical access to the robot.

Author: ```suggestion
For some configuration aspects you may require physical access to the robot so you can see how components are connected.
```

{{< /alert >}}

### Package Deployment

_Coming soon._

> You and your collaborators can deploy control logic, [modular resources](/program/extend/modular-resources/), sidecar [processes](../configuration/#processes), or [machine learning models](../../services/ml/) to your fleet of robots without manually copying files by uploading it to Viam's cloud and deploying it to your fleet.

Reviewer: "sidecar" seems too colloquial

Reviewer: oh okay

Reviewer 2: I think it works

### Remote control

> Everyone who has access to the location the robot is in, can remotely control the robot using the [**control** tab](robots/#control).

Reviewer: This "Everyone who has access to the location the robot is in" phrase being repeated makes me have de ja vu. Maybe after the first time it can be shortened to "Everyone"? Or
```suggestion
Everyone who has access to the robot can remotely control it using the [**control** tab](robots/#control).
```

Author: Then it's only clear if you read everything in order which we can't assume

This allows you to visually test and remotely operate robot components and services

> If you are remotely controlling the robot, it is recommended that you or your collaborators install a [camera](/components/camera), so you can monitor the robot as you control it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are remotely controlling the robot, it is recommended that you or your collaborators install a [camera](/components/camera) so you can monitor the robot as you control it.
```
[opt] I think it reads better without?

### Control with code

Everyone who has access to the location the robot is in, can obtain the robot address and secret needed to send API calls to the robot.
You can also share the robot address and location secret without granting location access in the Viam app.

> With the robot address and the location secret, you can write code, collaborate on your code using tools like GitHub and run your code on the robot from anywhere in the world.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the robot address and the location secret, you can write code, collaborate on your code using tools like GitHub, and run your code on the robot from anywhere in the world.
```

> If you are remotely controlling the robot, it is recommended that you or your collaborators install a [camera](/components/camera), so you can monitor the robot as you control it.

Author: I always assume people will skim read and only read the section they're looking for - so repeating this in some way is important

{{< alert title="Note" color="note" >}}
For some configuration aspects you may require physical access to the robot so you can see how components are connected.
{{< /alert >}}

### Package Deployment

_Coming soon._

You and your collaborators can deploy control logic, [modular resources](/program/extend/modular-resources/), sidecar [processes](../configuration/#processes), or [machine learning models](../../services/ml/) to your fleet of robots without manually copying files by uploading it to Viam's cloud and deploying it to your fleet.

### Remote control

Everyone who has access to the robot can remotely control it using the [**control** tab](robots/#control).
This allows you to visually test and remotely operate robot components and services
If you are remotely controlling the robot, it is recommended that you or your collaborators install a [camera](/components/camera) so you can monitor the robot as you control it.

### Control with code

Everyone who has access to the robot's location can obtain the robot address and secret needed to send API calls to the robot.
You can also share the robot address and location secret without granting location access in the Viam app.

> With the robot address and the location secret, you can write code, collaborate on your code using tools like GitHub, and run your code on the robot from anywhere in the world.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the robot address and the location secret, you can write code, collaborate on your code using tools like GitHub, and run your code to control the robot from anywhere in the world.
```
As the code in some cases does not need to be running on the robot, and in order to run it on the robot they'd need access to the robot compute or code deployment... I think as written it confuses what we mean to convey here

> If you are remotely controlling the robot, it is recommended that you or your collaborators install a [camera](/components/camera), so you can monitor the robot as you control it.

Reviewer 2: Doesn't this assume certain things about the robot?  What if its just a bunch of sensors?

### Configuration

Everyone who has access to the location the robot is in, can change the robot's configuration.
When you or your collaborators change a robot's configuration, the robot will automatically reconfigure itself within 15 seconds.
You can see configuration changes made by yourself or by your collaborators on the [History tab](robots/#history).
You can also revert to an earlier configuration from the History tab.

{{< alert title="Note" color="note" >}}
For some configuration aspects you may require physical access to the robot so you can see how components are connected.
{{< /alert >}}

### Package Deployment

_Coming soon._

You and your collaborators can deploy control logic, [modular resources](/program/extend/modular-resources/), sidecar [processes](../configuration/#processes), or [machine learning models](../../services/ml/) to your fleet of robots without manually copying files by uploading it to Viam's cloud and deploying it to your fleet.

### Remote control

Everyone who has access to the robot can remotely control it using the [**control** tab](robots/#control).
This allows you to visually test and remotely operate robot components and services

> If you are remotely controlling the robot, it is recommended that you or your collaborators install a [camera](/components/camera) so you can monitor the robot as you control it.

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Control with code

Everyone who has access to the robot's location can obtain the robot address and secret needed to send API calls to the robot.
You can also share the robot address and location secret without granting location access in the Viam app.

With the robot address and the location secret, you can write code, collaborate on your code using tools like GitHub, and run your code to control the robot from anywhere in the world.

> If you are remotely controlling the robot, it is recommended that you or your collaborators install a [camera](/components/camera), so you can monitor the robot as you control it.

Author: ```suggestion
```
